well howdy there internet people is Bo
again so today we're gonna talk about
something I don't want to talk about
something I've been trying to avoid I've
been asked about it a couple times the
differences I was asked by a teacher now
so we're gonna talk about armed teachers
armed teachers in schools is it a
solution and how it's a band-aid on a
bullet wound at best will it help maybe
if it's done right is it going to be
done right absolutely not absolutely not
you guys have trouble getting money for
pencils paper textbooks from this
century you know things you actually
need to do your job I had I I'm very
hard pressed to believe that the school
board is going to give you an ammo
budget and to do what you're talking
about you got to be better trained than
the average cop a lot better trained and
that's not to say well no it is to say
cops don't get good training but you
can't train to that level you you got to
train to the level of an HRT a hostage
rescue team because you're gonna be in a
more intense situation then the cops are
when they arrive what happens somebody
starts shooting cops get notified takes
them time to drive there eventually they
make entry during that lag things
stabilized kids find cover school what
can get locked down gets locked down
kids evacuate maybe the shooter runs out
of ammo or pops himself things happen
you don't get that luxury as a teacher
you don't get that when the shooting
starts you're there so when you step out
in that hallway it's not empty there's
kids running around panicked
you can't miss period you cannot miss
because if you do you're hitting another
student
you can't miss so you've got to get good
real good at putting the bullets where
you want them and then once you get to
that point you got to figure out how to
do that while you're moving while kids
are running in front of you you have to
change your entire mindset when you're
walking through the hallway you're not a
teacher anymore you're a warrior you're
not worried about the students thinking
about them in your class you're
wondering if that nook over there is
gonna make good cover you have to change
everything you have to get very good you
have to train and you have to do it all
in secret you can't tell anybody the
second a student finds out I think
you're you're you're done it's over any
effectiveness you had is now gone
contrary to popular belief the idea of
an armed teacher isn't going to be a
deterrent there's already cops in
schools there's already armed people at
schools it's not a deterrent students
find out you got a gun and there is a
school shooting you're just number one
on the kill list
so no no it's not practical it is not
practical the amount of ammo it's gonna
take to get you where you need to be to
engage in a close quarters battle in a
crowded hallway it is insane
and that's expensive it is expensive you
want to make it workable okay can't
leave your class you can't leave your
class school shooting starts you lock
down your class you save those 30 lives
everybody else is on their own the
reality because you can't go engage him
you got to wait for him to come to you
if you're in one of those schools that's
built like a prison you know with the
wings that can get locked down maybe you
can lock that down successfully and
protect those students maybe
problem is even in that scenario schools
are meant to be inviting your classrooms
inviting schools are inviting there's a
lot of open space you know what there's
not a lot of cover there's not a lot of
things to hide behind you can't engage
them by standing there in the open
you'll die you will die they have the
initiative the shooter has the
initiative yeah you can't just stand in
the hallway
you got to make cover you have to make
cover and you got to make something that
can sit in your classroom and the
students not know what it is because the
second they know it's over
filing cabinet gonna take a filing
cabinet you know put wheels on it by
time you're done with the Wills it needs
to be just high enough for you to peek
over you're gonna fill that filing
cabinet you put armor
well now putting plates in the back of
it that's kind of run a grand I'm
assuming as a teacher that's not in your
budget although apparently now for your
pay we're also expecting you to call up
your local metal manufacturer you're a
local metal fabricator or welder can't
tell them what you're really doing
though because you can't tell anybody he
may have a kid who he tells so you can't
tell him tell him you gonna build a
range so you need steel plates and
you're gonna give them the measurements
from the inside of that filing cabinet
you need still places that you can ring
a 308 off of write it down 308 it's
about the most powerful thing you can
realistically expect to run into in this
a situation so you're gonna get those
plates cut and then you're gonna stick
them in the back of that file at counter
I can't do that you're gonna get text
books phone books and fill it standing
vertically out sideways just laying in
there standing up vertically you're
gonna bill it so you've got mobile cover
put that in your classroom and if you're
in one of those schools that you can
successfully lock down that hallway
you're going to put one near the entry
to that hallway whether it be another
classroom or closet whatever so you have
something that will stop a bullet that
you can be behind otherwise this is all
all a moot point
you're gonna most schools are concrete
you're gonna want to put frangible ammo
in your weapon
it's a special type of ammo that when it
hits the wall it breaks up lowers the
risk of ricochet and hitting one of
those kids that's panicked in the
hallway you you need to watch that video
buying a gun for political violence
watch that become familiar with the
concepts in that and do a realistic
evaluation of whether or not you are
really going to be able to put the
brains of one of your students on the
ground because that's what it's gonna
take
good news is that psychology is working
in your favor for a change when you're
talking about cops people that have to
make entry they have to set aside their
instinct for self-preservation you don't
have to do that you're already at risk
so you have to fight it's going to do
that you're more likely to get the fight
side of that fight-or-flight response so
that'll help then the other thing you
can't figure out is how you're gonna
avoid getting killed when the cops
finally do make entry they don't know
what's going on they just see somebody
with a gun can't tell him
nobody nobody gets to know nobody the
second one student finds out all of them
know and then if a school shooting
happens in your school it's gonna start
in your classroom and you're gonna be
the first target is your threat nobody
can know so no no it's not a solution it
is not a solution for this to be a
solution the amount of training and
money that it would take is ridiculous
you'd have to engage in psychological
warfare against the students as well and
having the principal announce fake
messages about oh it's range day
teachers and make it seem like
everybody's got a gun not really a place
I don't want to send my kid to be honest
now I'm not saying don't do it I'm not
I'm not in fact I feel more comfortable
with the idea of you doing it then
people who think it's a good idea
because at least you understand that you
are so far from the level of training
you need to do this that that maybe
you'll take it seriously you're talking
about close quarters combat and in in
incredibly incredibly difficult
scenarios hallway
ask any vet ask anybody who's ever been
in a gunfight where do you not want to
be somewhere where you can only move
towards the target or away from it that
that's you don't want to be there
because there's nothing when you've
leaned up against the lockers there's no
cover there's nothing to hide behind
maybe maybe you know it's not a solution
but maybe it is that band-aid on a
bullet wound until someone comes up but
what you have to do is you have to weigh
the risk of a school shooting versus the
likelihood of you losing control of that
weapon in that classroom a likelihood of
a student seeing it because none of them
ever can ever
if it works it's because you made it
work it's gonna be up to you you alone
as an individual as a teacher as an
educator you have to become the expert
in combat because the school boards
policy is gonna be horrible I can tell
you that now they're gonna get some
police adviser who doesn't know what
they're doing probably from the local
sheriff's office maybe he's from there
SRT from that from the Sheriff's
Response Team maybe he's part of that
but even then their training is on a
static scenario their training isn't ten
seconds after the shooting their
training is after it's stabilized
they're not expecting kids running in
the hallways they're going to be more
concerned about a liability than
effectiveness and and with your when
you're talking about combat liability is
just part of it liability and
effectiveness don't they they don't go
hand in hand
this is America today this is America
today
teachers need mobile cover and need to
need to learn how to engage in close
quarters combat that's fantastic
this is the world we're in anyway
we probably need to look at other
solutions and other concepts and maybe
set better examples then then this this
isn't going to solve the problem it's
just a fall
y'all have a y'all have a good night